BigQuery Update -  Deduplication Information (#565)
rudderlabs/rudderstack-docs: data-warehouse-integrations/google-bigquery.mdx

For more details on the tables and columns created by RudderStack, refer to the <a href="https://rudderstack.com/docs/data-warehouse-integrations/warehouse-schemas/">Warehouse Schema</a> guide.
</div>

RudderStack supports two modes by which data is ingested into BigQuery. If you are using [open source RudderStack](https://rudderstack.com/docs/rudderstack-open-source), you can manage this via the environment variable `RSERVER_WAREHOUSE_BIGQUERY_IS_DEDUP_ENABLED`:

| Ingestion method | `RSERVER_WAREHOUSE_BIGQUERY_IS_DEDUP_ENABLED`  |
| :-----------------| :-------------------|
| Partitioned tables (default) | `false` |
| Deduplication | `true` |

<div class="infoBlock">

By default, RudderStack uses the partitioned tables method to ingest data into BigQuery. Deduplication is disabled.
</div>

### Partitioned tables and views

RudderStack creates ingestion-time partition tables based on the load date, so you can take advantage of it to query a subset of data.

<div class="infoBlock">

> More details on the BigQuery partitioned tables can be found in this <a href="https://cloud.google.com/bigquery/docs/partitioned-tables">BigQuery documentation</a>. More information on how RudderStack creates these tables on load can be found in <a href="https://cloud.google.com/bigquery/docs/creating-partitioned-tables#creating_an_ingestion-time_partitioned_table_when_loading_data">this section</a>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can find more details on the BigQuery partitioned tables in <a href="https://cloud.google.com/bigquery/docs/partitioned-tables">BigQuery documentation</a>. For information on how RudderStack creates these tables on load, refer to the <a href="https://cloud.google.com/bigquery/docs/creating-partitioned-tables#creating_an_ingestion-time_partitioned_table_when_loading_data">Creating partitioned tables</a> guide.
```

For more details on the tables and columns created by RudderStack, refer to the <a href="https://rudderstack.com/docs/data-warehouse-integrations/warehouse-schemas/">Warehouse Schema</a> guide.
</div>

RudderStack supports two modes by which data is ingested into BigQuery:

- Partitioned tables (default method)
- Deduplication

<div class="infoBlock">

By default, RudderStack uses the partitioned tables method to ingest data into BigQuery. Deduplication is disabled.
</div>

> If you are using [open source RudderStack](https://rudderstack.com/docs/rudderstack-open-source), you can manage these modes via the environment variable `RSERVER_WAREHOUSE_BIGQUERY_IS_DEDUP_ENABLED`, as shown in the following table:

Author: ```suggestion
If you are using [open source RudderStack](https://rudderstack.com/docs/rudderstack-open-source) or are hosting the RudderStack data plane, you can manage these modes via the environment variable `RSERVER_WAREHOUSE_BIGQUERY_IS_DEDUP_ENABLED`, as shown in the following table:
```

> If you are using [open source RudderStack](https://rudderstack.com/docs/rudderstack-open-source) or are hosting the RudderStack data plane, you can manage these modes via the environment variable `RSERVER_WAREHOUSE_BIGQUERY_IS_DEDUP_ENABLED`, as shown in the following table:

Author: ```suggestion
If you are using [open source RudderStack](https://rudderstack.com/docs/rudderstack-open-source) or hosting the RudderStack data plane, you can manage these modes via the environment variable `RSERVER_WAREHOUSE_BIGQUERY_IS_DEDUP_ENABLED`, as shown in the following table:
```

Users can modify the view query to change the time window of the view. The default value is set to <strong>60 days</strong>.
</div>

> ### Deduplication method

Author: yep - done!

In this method, RudderStack automatically discards any duplicate events while loading them into the BigQuery tables.

> 

Reviewer 2: one more warning here: 
`Query cost increases as duplicated are removed from tables through sequential scan`

wdyt @psrikanth88 ?

Reviewer 3: Yes, that would be good to add.

`Query cost increases as duplicates are removed from tables through sequential scan on every warehouse upload. Eg. If your warehouse upload frequency is 'Every  30 mins' - a full scan on tracks table would be performed every 30mins to upload new events to tracks table`

Author: Done!

<div class="warningBlock">

Views will not be created for the tables if you choose the deduplication method.
</div>

### Switching from deduplication to partitioned tables

> You can easily switch from using the deduplication method to ingest your data in BigQuery to the partitioned tables by setting the config parameter `warehouse.bigquery.isDedupEnabled` to `false`.

Author: incorporated this.

RudderStack then does the following:

> - Creates `users_view` while loading the `users` table.

Reviewer 3: Creates `users_view` while loading the `users` table 

Should we add a `if not present` to these statements ? @Jayachand

Reviewer 2: yeah, this would be fine
- Creates `users_view` if not present
- Creates the views for the new `track` events.
- All the other skipped views will not be regenerated. You can either create those views or [contact us](mailto:%20support@rudderstack.com).

Author: Added this info

Users can modify the view query to change the time window of the view. The default value is set to <strong>60 days</strong>.
</div>

### Deduplication method

In this method, RudderStack automatically discards any duplicate events while loading them into the BigQuery tables. To enable this method, set the environment variable `RSERVER_WAREHOUSE_BIGQUERY_IS_DEDUP_ENABLED` in your open source RudderStack setup to `true`.

<div class="warningBlock">

Views will not be created for the tables if you choose the deduplication method.
</div>

<div class="warningBlock">

> Note that the <strong>querying cost will increase</strong> if you choose this method, as RudderStack removes the duplicates from the tables through sequential scans that happen on every warehouse upload. For example, if your warehouse upload frequency is set to  every 30 minutes, RudderStack performs a full scan on the <code class="inline-code">tracks</code> table every 30mins to upload any new events.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that the <strong>querying cost will increase</strong> if you choose this method, as RudderStack removes the duplicates from the tables through sequential scans that happen on every warehouse upload. For example, if your warehouse upload frequency is set to  every 30 minutes, RudderStack performs a full scan on the <code class="inline-code">tracks</code> table every 30 minutes to upload any new events.
```

</div>

### Switching from deduplication to partitioned tables

You can easily switch from using the deduplication method to ingest your data in BigQuery to the partitioned tables by setting the environment variable `RSERVER_WAREHOUSE_BIGQUERY_IS_DEDUP_ENABLED` in your open source RudderStack setup to `false`.

RudderStack then does the following:

- Creates `users_view` while loading the `users` table, **if not already present**.
- Creates the views for the new `track` events.

> - All the other skipped views are not regenerated. You can either manually create those views or [contact us](mailto:%20support@rudderstack.com).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- All the other skipped views are not regenerated. You can either manually create those views or [contact us](mailto:%20support@rudderstack.com) to get them created.
```

Users can modify the view query to change the time window of the view. The default value is set to <strong>60 days</strong>.
</div>

### Deduplication method

> In this method, RudderStack automatically discards any duplicate events while loading them into the BigQuery tables. To enable this method, set the environment variable `RSERVER_WAREHOUSE_BIGQUERY_IS_DEDUP_ENABLED` in your RudderStack setup to `true`.

Author: ```suggestion
In this method, RudderStack automatically discards any duplicate events while loading them into the BigQuery tables. To enable this method, set the environment variable `RSERVER_WAREHOUSE_BIGQUERY_IS_DEDUP_ENABLED` in your RudderStack data plane setup to `true`.
```

> In this method, RudderStack automatically discards any duplicate events while loading them into the BigQuery tables. To enable this method, set the environment variable `RSERVER_WAREHOUSE_BIGQUERY_IS_DEDUP_ENABLED` in your open source RudderStack setup to `true`.

Author: ```suggestion
In this method, RudderStack automatically discards any duplicate events while loading them into the BigQuery tables. To enable this method, set the environment variable `RSERVER_WAREHOUSE_BIGQUERY_IS_DEDUP_ENABLED` in your RudderStack setup to `true`.
```

<div class="warningBlock">

Views will not be created for the tables if you choose the deduplication method.
</div>

<div class="warningBlock">

Note that the <strong>querying cost will increase</strong> if you choose this method, as RudderStack removes the duplicates from the tables through sequential scans that happen on every warehouse upload. For example, if your warehouse upload frequency is set to  every 30 minutes, RudderStack performs a full scan on the <code class="inline-code">tracks</code> table every 30 minutes to upload any new events.
</div>

### Switching from deduplication to partitioned tables

> You can easily switch from using the deduplication method to ingest your data in BigQuery to the partitioned tables by setting the environment variable `RSERVER_WAREHOUSE_BIGQUERY_IS_DEDUP_ENABLED` in your open source RudderStack setup to `false`.

Reviewer 2: remove open source term, as these options are available to both open source and RS deployments.
Mentioning above variable in this structure as open source guys are convenient to this.

> You can easily switch from using the deduplication method to ingest your data in BigQuery to the partitioned tables by setting the environment variable `RSERVER_WAREHOUSE_BIGQUERY_IS_DEDUP_ENABLED` in your open source RudderStack setup to `false`.

Author: ```suggestion
You can easily switch from using the deduplication method to ingest your data in BigQuery to the partitioned tables by setting the environment variable `RSERVER_WAREHOUSE_BIGQUERY_IS_DEDUP_ENABLED` in your RudderStack setup to `false`.
```
